---
abstract: |
    This paper will examine the different constructive and technical measures
    employed by governmental, non-governmental, and corporate actors to protect
    their secret communications in the physical realm. It will define the target
    ideal state of “information security”, identify information sources that
    must be controlled to reach this state, set up quantitative limits on these
    information sources discoverable externally, provide example attack
    techniques, and propose various passive and active countermeasures to reach
    these limits and defend against these attacks. Finally it will present an
    example module that achieves these specifications measurably.

    Note, this paper is limited in scope to constructive and technical measures
    and does not focus on IT or organisational security measures, like
    encryption, security-related review/monitoring of employees, and
    classification levels.  It also does not dwell on specific countries
    bureaucratic protocols, but instead aims to present a unified picture of the
    global state of the art.

author: "diyscif"
date: '2021-01-01'
title: 'SCIFs - State of the Art and Future Considerations'
csl: iso690-author-date-en.csl
---

# What is a SCIF?

Sensitive compartmented information facility (SCIF) is a term used by U.S.
military and intelligence organizations to describe secure, enclosed areas
designated for handling sensitive, classified information. They come in many
different shapes and sizes, each designed for a specific mission demand. They
can be installed permanently in buildings, designed as mobile units, set up
temporarily, and even built aboard aircraft and naval vessels. What unites these
different variants is the common goal of creating a designated space with
rigorous security practices that thwarts all plausible passive outside observers
and active attackers.

SCIFs are by no means exclusive to U.S. government instituations. They are used
internationally by a wide variety of actors, from other governments to
international organization to corporations and NGOs. The term is simply the most
common and will be used in this paper to refer to all structures specifically
built to achieve the above aim.

Most countries classify their specifications for these secure facilities.  The
United States, in contrast, have published comprehensive information on their
engineering practices under Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) 705
"Sensitive Compartmeneted Information Facilities" and its associated technical
specifications. This information can be supplemented by private contractors'
informational material, documents released under the Freedom of Information Act
(FOIA), leaked documents, and scientific literature.

The U.S. national security community has over time developed its own jargon that
is difficult to understand in the context of a more unified, global perspective.
Therefore, this paper will strive to use more neutral, publisher agonstic terms
for general concepts. Consequently, what is referred to in the ICD as the
"protection of Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI)" [@ics-705-ts] can be
more generally subsumed under the term information security.

# Information Security - Ideal State

A communication link or room is considered secure if information travelling
through it cannot be intercepted by unauthorized parties.  This is a
theoretical ideal state that _cannot_ be reached. However, one can employ
various countermeasures to secure a communication link or room to such a degree
that it can be practically considered as secure against an attacker with
certain resources.

Both we and our attackers are constrained by limited resources. Viewing attack
techniques from a resource perspective allows us to determine whether they are
reasonable, given the threat level, and if countermeasures must be deployed
against them. Resources are best expressed in terms of cost, time, and technical
skill required. Taking into account these parameters, we are then able to
develop a mission-specific threat model that allows us to employ our _limited_
resources effectively to defend against the most likely and serious attacks.

The IC Tech Spec‐for ICD/ICS 705 [@ics-705-ts, p. 20] does this by using
country-level threat ratings derived from the Department of State's (DoS)
Security Environment Threat List (SETL). The ICD establishes appropriate
construction criteria based on the host country's technical threat rating. Other
possible criteria from which to derive a threat level include value of
information handled and named/identified threats.

It is highly unlikely that an attacker will expend more resources to carry out
an attack than the objective value of the attainable information.

# Information Source Leaks

There are various information sources that can leak from the secure facility and
be intercepted. These can generally be grouped into visual, acoustic, and
electromagnetic informaiton source leaks. A passive observer can use different
sensors to capture and analyze these leaks.

## Visual

Visual leaks are any direct view of sensitive information, captured by the
outside passive observer on camera, or surface whose reverberations can be
captured with a laser and then translated into usable information. For example,
when speaking, glass panes or mirrors in a room are set into vibration. When
there is visual insight into the room (e.g. from the neighboring building), a
laser beam can be directed onto these reflecting surfaces and the reflected beam
can be received again. The reflected beam is modulated by the oscillations. By
demodulation, the conversation can be made audible. [@wolfsperger2008, p. 463]

Barring holes in the SCIF perimeter, like propped-open doors, visual leaks can
only be captured through windows.

## Acoustic

Acoustic leaks are sound waves that escape the enclosed areas, either directly
or through structure-borne sound transmission. These can be captured with
directional microphones, contact microphones, and well placed conventional
microphones. An example of such an advantageous placement would be in an
unmuffled ventilation or heating duct. Digital sound processing software can
further be used to reconstruct, clarify, and analyze sound recordings.

## Electromagnetic/TEMPEST

Compromising electromagnetic waves unintentionally emitted from information
processing equipment, like computers, screens, and even printers are another
source for information leaks. These radio or electrical signals, sounds, and
vibrations can be captured with antennas, microphones, and other sensors, and
allow inferences to be made about the information processed, sometimes even
allowing its complete reconstruction [@liu2020]. They can also serve as a
side-channel for attacks on cryptography [@genkin2015]. The techniques for
extraction and analysis of compromising electromagnetic emanations fall under
the commonly used U.S. National Security Agency codename TEMPEST [@tempest].

# Limits

This section will set quantitative limits on information sources available to an
outside passive observer.

## Visual

No visual information should be accessible to an outside passive observer.
Visual information source leaks are the easiest to avoid and should therefore be
wholly prevented. Even observation of the entrypoint could provide insights into
the comings and goings of authorized personnel and should therefore be obscured
as much as possible.

## Acoustic

Acoustic emissions must be reduced by at least a weighted sound reduction index
of R'~w~ = 52 dB. This measure roughly corresponds to the Sound Transmission
Class 50 listed in the IC Tech Spec‐for ICD/ICS 705 as an enhanced rating for
areas that provide for amplified conversations [@ics-705-ts, p. 66]. We use this
as a general minimum measure, because the IC Tech Spec is geared towards
military and other government facilties that provide a large measure of security
in depth (SID), meaning that only semi-trusted personnel ever get within earshot
of the SCIF. Security in Depth is a multilayered approach, which effectively
employs human and other physical security measures [like fences, walls, and
guarded entry gates] throughout the installation or facility to create a layered
defense against potential threats" [@navfac, p. 20]. Additionally, SID increases
the probability of detection of nefarious activity because of continuous
friendly-forces presence [@ics-705-ts, p. 3]. These conditions cannot be
guaranteed for all locations, especially in the corporate realm, so we strive to
compensate reduced SID with a higher degree of sound insulation.  When possible,
R'~w~ = 52 dB should be exceeded.

R'~w~ represents the resulting sound insulation between two rooms, taking into
account all sound transmission paths [@tichelmann2000, p. 26]. This explicitly
includes not only transmission through dividing components, but also so-called
"flank transmission" over adjoining building components. In this phenomenon
sound waves cause vibrations in flanking walls and then linearly travel through
them into the other room [@moeser2009, p. 254]. R'~w~ is a cummulative value
calculated on the basis of the weighted sound reduction index of each component
R~w~ [@tichelmann2000, p. 34].

R~w~ is calculated by measuring sound transmission from one room into the other
in one-third octave or octave steps.  White noise with the given bandwidth is
used as test sound. A frequency response curve R is thus obtained in the
so-called building-acoustics frequency range between 100 Hz and 3.15 kHz. The
frequency response curve R is then compared to a reference curve B in order to
derive a single comparison value. In the comparison, the reference curve is
shifted in 1 dB steps onto the frequency response curve until the sum of the
undershoots S~U~ of the frequency response curve compared to the reference curve
is less than 32 dB. [@moeser2009 pp.  256-257]

![For the definition of the weighted sound reduction index R~w~. B = Reference
curve, B~v~ = Shifted reference curve, M = Measured values, U = Undershoots of
M compared to B~v~. @goesele2004](images/schalldämmmaß.png){height=40%}

From this diagram we can also see that for a R~w~ = 52 dB (the reference curve)
the fundamental frequency of the male voice - 125 Hz - only undergoes a sound
attenuation of ca. 35 dB. Given a 60 dB conversation sound-level the sound
attenuation is not sufficient to protect from a close proximity attacker.
Passive sound-attenuation measures should be specifically evaluated in the 125
Hz to 300 Hz range, and significantly exceed the reference curve's performance.

Airborne sound transmission via ventilation and structure-borne sound
transmission via ducts, such as water and ventilation pipes, can significantly
reduce sound insulation. In some cases they can even provide direct channels for
an outside attacker to capture sound on. [@moeser2009 p. 276]

## Electromagnetic/TEMPEST

# Attacks

Apart from passively observing information source leaks from outside the secure
facility, an attacker can also actively attack the space to place sensors inside
it and transmit sensitive information to the outside.

## Visual

## Acoustic

## Electromagnetic/TEMPEST

# Countermeasures

## Physical

### Construction Security

Later passive and active countermeasures are completely ineffective if the SCIF
is breached during construction. Therefore meticulous preparation of and
adherence to a Construction Security Plan is required.

### Intrusion Resistance

### Intrusion Detection Systems

### Access Control

### Locks

### CCTV

## Visual

## Acoustic

### Sound Attenuation

### Sound Masking

### Microphone Jamming

## Electromagnetic/TEMPEST

### Electromagnetic Shielding

### System Monitoring

### Signal Jamming

## Bug Sweeping

# Example Module

This section will propose an example solution for a Sensitive Compartmented
Information Facility (SCIF). It will employ the above passive and active
countermeasures in a shipping container sized (~ 6 x 2.4 x 2.7 m) module to
reach the quantitative limits on information source leaks defined above.

## Physical

## Visual

## Sound

## Electromagnetic/TEMPEST

# References
